---
layout: post
title: Add Cards
categories: [Component Guides]
author: Anna Browell
---
{% include image.html img="cards.png" style="wide" lightbox="false" alt="Alt for image" caption="Cards" %}


## Description

The card graphic format on a website allows you to communicate information to your reader in a smart and concise way. Cards often feature simple content: an image accompanied by a name, title, user name, and icons. Each individual card can work as a mini condensed web page, and they are a great way to promote products and services. This 4 column card component is formatted to centre 4 cards across the width of a web page in a clear reader-friendly design layout.

{% include image.html img="cards_settings.png" style="wide" lightbox="false" alt="Alt for image" caption="Cards Settings" %}


## Using the Cards Component

1. Open a WPBakery Frontend Editor on the page you want to modify
2. Click the + symbol on the top menu to open the WPBakery component menu
3. Navigate to the section Next-Gen
4. Select the option Cards
5. The settings box will open out
6. There are 5 styles that you can cycle through under the dropdown 'type'
7. Add your image, title and button name
8. Click save and one card will be added in a row at the end of the page
9. The Card will take up the entire width of the website
10. When you hover over the card you will notice a label with the text row and column
11. Click the small arrow to expand the row options
12. Now click the hamburger/three horizontal lines icon
13. This expands the row layout settings select either the three or four column section and click update
14. Now the card will be correctly formatted in its column
15. You will now see 2-3 '+' icons next to your card.
16. Click the '+' icon navigate to the section Next-Gen and select another card
17. Repeat this for the other empty columns you added
18. You can drag the cards section to the right place on your page by selecting the left corner of the row and dragging it


For further details on managing rows please check out the following article:
[Creating columns](/Shutta-Cognita-NextGen/SettingUpAGrid/)


## Pro Tip
> Include a Call to action button on a card to entice a user to investigate further!


